---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8"
date:   2020-10-30 19:05:17 -0700
categories: LANs and WANs
---

LANs and WANs are networks that both will allow computers and devices to connect to eachother and share files and complete tasks.

First, Lets start off with LANs. A LAN stands for local area network which is used for computers and devices that are near eachother to operate. An example of this may be your home network since you are using a router. A router creates the network and manages all the connected devices, such as your computer or phone (through WiFi).

WANs in another case, stands for wide area netowork and are used for computers and devices that are not close to eachother. Some examples of WANs are telephone systems or the internet as a whole. The internet connects computers all around the world and lets users connect to a single "network" to complete tasks.

To get into more detail, lets look at some comparisons...

LANs : 
- Up to 1000 mbs speed
- High data transfer rate
- Fewer data transmission errors
- Not expensive
- High bandwidth availability
- Less congestion

WANs :
- Up to 150 mbps
- Low data transfer rate
- More data transmission errors
- Expensive
- Low bandwidth availability
- More congestion

As you figured, devices closer to eachother will be more compatible with the user, but that doesn't always mean it is more effective to use. For a bigger company building, it is more likely that a WAN is set up since it can cover more area.

The reason why a LAN would be faster to transfer data, is because it is physically connected with hardwire. Also, the travel distance is much less compared to a WAN since it covers a wide area. For example, data transfer in one room of your house to another is much smaller than a state to state. However, this is regarding wired networks. When comparing wirelessly, it slows down both the networks speeds since it's not hardwired. It is also less reliable for both networks since signals may be lost in the process. This also brings security into play. LANs do offer more security since it is inevitable for WANs to have more security due to the wider area it covers. There will obviously be more people using the network which means more responsibility and vulnerability. 