---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9"
date:   2020-11-06 19:05:17 -0700
categories: Computer Hardware
---

Computer hardware is a very important aspect of the information technology because it allows you to create a device that will be able to process data and allow you to perform tasks. Many people don't know, but computers are made up of numerous pieces of hardware that have their own function that come together and allow the computer to properly operate. To get you more familiar with hardware components, I will list them out and describe their functions.

1. Central Processing Unit (CPU): This component is like the brain of the whole computer. The task that a CPU holds is very important because it allows the execution of programs by following the instructions and performing the tasks. Without a CPU, you wouldn't be able to operate any programs on your computer.

2. Motherboard: The motherboard is the circuit board of the computer. It allows for most of the other pieces of hardware to connect to the motherboard so they can function properly and in sync. Some things that connect to the motherboard are the memory, mouse, keyboard, speakers, and even the CPU.

3. Random Access Memory (RAM): RAM are thin sticks of memory that are used while the computer is powered on and running. To make it sound simple, RAM is used as memory when something on the computer is being performed, such as a program running. When your computer is off, there aren't any programs running so your RAM is not being used. This is important because it gives your computer the ability to directly access values.

4. Power Supply: The power supply is where your computer gets the current to power on and continue to run. Without a power supply, you wouldn't even be able to turn on your computer. Your power supply will be able to supply electrical currents to each piece of hardware.

5. Hard Drive: Your hard drive is also your storage, but in this case it is used even when your computer is turned off. This is used for storing files, programs, pictures, music, videos, etc. So in comparison to RAM, storage would be much more larger since you would have way more information to keep saved.

6. Graphics processing Unit (GPU): A GPU is used to provide a display of anything that is found on your computer screen. There are different subcomponents to a graphics card such as its own memory and processing unit. GPUs are very important when deciding to play games, because the better graphics card, the better video quality and frame rates you will get. This is why some games look so realistic.

7. Mouse and Keyboard: As you would imagine, a mouse and keyboard are very important in order to operate a computer. You use your mouse to track your cursor to guide the user where they want to go. The keyboard will allow you to type keys if you want to write anything out, or search anything.

All these components are essential when looking at a computer device because they are all important in their own unique way. With the way the technology industry is advancing, it is very important to keep in mind that these products are getting outdated really quickly. There is always something better being introduced and of course, it is pricey. It is not cheap to build a computer nowadays, especially if you are going to use the computer to play games.