---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6"
date:   2020-10-16 17:04 -0700
categories: Cyber Security
---

Today I will introduce the topic of Cyber Security in the Information Technology world.

Cyber Security is something that is a part of everyones lives on a daily basis. Without cyber security, we would not be able to have any privacy. Cyber Security allows us to keep our information to ourselves and not allow it from anyone getting ahold of sensitive information.

Cyber Security is orchestrated with the combination of computers, networkers, program, and data and applied by various layers of protection. The way our information is kept safe is with systems that integrate threat detectors, investigators, and remediators.

Some threats that someone may face with cybersecurity are as following:

Phishing: This is a basic threat that is done with sending a target certain links, usually emails, that they will click on and make them enter sensitive information. When the user enters the information, it is saved and they are able to access it.

Malware: Malware is a type of threat that is similar to a computer virus. This threat is done with a software that is downloaded onto your device in order to damage your system.

Distributed Denial of Service: This threat is done by sending an overload of traffic from various sources in order to cause an online service to shut down. This can range from someones router to much bigger online services such as banks.

You may now ask, what can someone like yourself do to stop these threats? Well some things can be as easy as using strong passwords, keeping software updated, and even using an advanced network. The main one that people fail to do is using a strong password. People use passwords that have to do with themselves which are usually easy to find out or guess.

As you can see, the implementation of cyber security is very important in order to protect people from these threats. It will prevent identify theft and even basic things like losing specific data.