---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 12"
date:   2020-12-04 19:05:17 -0700
categories: PERL and its importance
---

In today's blog, I will be introducing the topic of PERL and its importance. PERL is a programming language which is very useful in system administration, web development, network programming, GUI development, and more.

Perl is a programming language that is an open source software that integrates different interfaces such as Oracle, Sybase, Postgres, MySQL and others. One of the most helpful things about Perl is that it is compatible with HTML, XML, and others.

Some of the PERL basic fundamentals are:
1. Syntax
2. Variables
3. Numbers
4. String
5. Operators

Like Javascript, there are also lists, arrays, if else statements, for loops, while statements, etc.

If you wanted to print a simple string sentence, you would do as follow...

#!/usr/local/bin/perl
print "This is my example sentence!\n";

Which would print out "This is my example sentence".

So compared to Javascripts "echo", we would use "print".

One of the most tedious parts of PERL are that it is very syntax sensitive. You will have to make sure everything is perfect in order to run something. A lot of languages are like this, but perl is strict. For example, when we look at our example code for printing a string, we must include the ";" at the end. This goes after almost every line of code.

Some companies that use PERL are Amazon, Venmo, DuckDuckGo, IMDB, and even BBC. As you can tell from these big names, PERL is a very important and useful skillset to have when trying to achieve the most out of system administration.