---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3"
date:   2020-09-25 17:04 -0700
categories: Amazon Web Services
---

Today, I will introduce the world's mainly used cloud service, Amazon Web Services (AWS).

AWS is known as one of the main adopted cloud services for a reason. Due to it's low costs, agility, and fast innovation, people choose AWS to perform their daily services.

Functionality: AWS provides users with more services than any other cloud provider. Some of these functions are computing, storing, and emerging database technologies. For example, artificial intelligence which is a very prominent topic in today's technological agenda. With all of the easy resources AWS provides you with, you are able to build anything you desire. 

Community: AWS has a large and dynamic community that consists of different sized industries, startups, enterprises, and public organizations. There are also thousands of individual software users who are determined to adapt with the AWS technology and improve their skills.

Security: Since AWS is very trusted and used by millions across the globe, you could imagine that it is very secure. Some examples that have trusted AWS and their security are the military, global banks, and other highly sensitive organizations. This is done by the hundreds of cloud security tools, services, and features. All information is also encrypted, of course.

Innovation: AWS is significantly examping and improving to invent new and custom technologies to transform your business. They include a program known as AWS Lambda which lets developers run code without having to manage any servers. Also, AWS SageMaker is a service that allows developers to use machine learning without any past experience, so it is very easy to use.

With all of these key implementations AWS has applied to their cloud service, they offer a very stable, secure, and efficient service to any individual who wishes to create anything they put their mind to. If you haven't already, it is definitely worth looking into if you want to expand your skills in today's technological dependant world.