---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-13 19:05:17 -0700
categories: Cloud Computing
---

In this blog, I will introduce the topic of Cloud Computing. Cloud computing is the use of the cloud for many cases such as data backup, information recovery, email, virtual desktops, testing, analytics, and more. An example of a company that uses cloud computing are financial services companies allowing real-time fraud detection and preventition of information fraud.

There are three different types of cloud computing which I will discuss in order...

1. Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): IaaS is a basic style of cloud computing which allows users to access networking features, computers, and data storage. This is very useful for any user on a day to day business in system administration. For example, many IT departments and developers use this type of cloud computing in order to give them the highest level of flexibility over their IT resources.

2. Platform as a Service (PaaS): This type of service gives you more flexibility in the sense that it removes the need for you to manage more system. In this situation, you won't be managing hardware and operating system. With this, you will be able to put more work into applications and development. This provides you with the most efficiency through maitenance, patching, and capacity planning.

3. Software as a Service (SaaS): This type of cloud computing provides  you with a complete service that is managed by the service provider. This allows you to ignore the management since all of it maintained for yourself. This will allow you to take more time to understand the use of the software as a whole.


There are multiple benifits to each type of service including easy and fast access to technologies, savings on costs, and rapid deployment. 