---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3-SP21"
date:   2021-03-12 19:05:17 -0700
categories: Linux Distributions
---

In today's blog I will introduce the topic of linux distributions and about some of them. First of all, you need to know what a linux distribution is : An operating system which is made up of the linux kernenl, software, and package manager. It is called a distribution because something like Ubuntu will "distribute" the kernel along with the necessities that come with it in order to be used as an operating system.

Of course, it is not easy to choose a type of distribution because there are currently over 300 different types. However, there are ones that perform better than others, so it elimate a lot of the choices for you. Each linux distribution has its own use, therefore one may be better for a certain situation over another one. I will list three different distributions to make it more understandable.

1. Debian - This distributino is one of the oldest distributions and the best part about it is that it's free to use. In the debian distribution there are three branches. The unstable branch is for users who don't need stability but will access the latest versions of software. The next one is the testing branch where they have performed some testing and are in between stable and unstable. The last is stable which is best used for servers in general.

2. Ubuntu - Ubuntu is a large distribution since there is a desktop version and also servers which are for Amazon AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, etc. The desktop version of Ubuntu is very benificial to have because they offer fast software packages that will allow you to work in a more efficient environment.

3. Fedora - This distribution is also free and it allows you to use an open source platform for hardware, clouds, and containers. Fedora best fits for users that like running applications on the cloud with a linux server OS with the latest open source technology. In general, fedora will allow you to work in a fast and free space which is always needed.