---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7-SP21"
date:   2021-04-16 19:05:17 -0700
categories: Network Switches
---

In today's blog I will introduce the topic of network switches in the system administration field in order for you to understand the responsibility of networking in computers. A network switch, in simple terms, is an a device that operates as a link for networks. It operates at the data link layer of the OSI model and allows packets to be sent by devices that are connected to ports. If  you're wondering where you would have to use a switch, ethernet, fibre chanel, asynchronous transfer mode, and infiniband are examples.

Network switches have an interesting way of operating. If you connect a device to a switch, the switch takes in the MAC address and processes it using the network interface card. Then, the switch uses the MAC address to identify the attached device packets are being sent from and where to deliver the packets. When a device sends packets, it enters the switch and the switch reads the information in order to know what to do with them. It then matches the destination in order to know its pair.

Switches are often mixed up with routers, but there are differences between them. Routers operate at layer 3, the network layer, which connect networks to other networks. This is similar to LANs and WANs. You probably have a router and switch at home, in which the router would be your network and the switch would be ethernet wires in order to hardwire your wireless connection.

There are also many types of switches such as...

- Unmanaged
- Managed
- Smart switch

These switches come with management features such as...

- Enable and disable ports
- Configure settings such as bandwidth
- Set quality of service
- Configure port mirroring
- Enable MAC filtering