---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0-SP21"
date:   2021-02-19 19:05:17 -0700
categories: Data Structures
---

In this blog, I will talk about a piece of computer information technology that revolves around programming. This is the use and implementation of data structures in your code. Data structures are a very useful way of storing and retrieving data in computers. Data structures are important because they are like the foundation to computers since they allow you to build programs with the data you have stored and will retreieve. A real world example that would help you understand data structures a little better would be a dictionary. Dictionary are organized and ordered in alphabetical order so the user can search for words using patterns without having to look through the whole dictionary.

To efficiently use data structures, you must learn these different types:

1. Arrays - A structured list that holds different pieces of data in sections. For example, An array might have 3 sections labeled as index 0,1,2. And there can be a different string or integer in each index. This is a very useful way of organizing and storing data in a concise way.
2. Linked List - A linked list is self explanatory given the name, it is a list of data in order which are linked to one another. It starts with the head, then the node, and last the tail.
3. Stacks - Stacks are also a very unique data structures because it represents a stack of plates. For example, LIFO which stands for last in first out. If you put a 10th plate onto 9 other plates, it is the last plate you placed, but if you want to take out any plates you would take out the 10th plate off the top. This is useful because it helps for the evaluation of mathematical equations or recursion programming.
4. Queue - A queue is similar to a stack, but in this case we have FIFO which is first in first out. This example could be seen as a line at a grocery store. If you are the first in line, you will be the first to leave as well. These are useful when creating programs that involve queues or lines such as the supermarket example.
5. Hash Tables - This data structure stores values which have corresponding keys associated with them so you can just look up the key in order to the find the data attatched to it. This is very useful because you might have a massive amount of data that is hard to keep of, so you would just add a key to it and look for it by entering the key.
6. Binary Search Trees - BSTs are shaped in a tree with its branches of data that go in a hierarchial structure. This is also similar to linked lists because they are data that is stored in order. There are nodes, childs, and parents which connect with one another.