---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6-SP21"
date:   2021-04-09 19:05:17 -0700
categories: Patch Management
---

In today's blog I will introduce the topic of patch management in software administration. Patch management is being able to manage a network of computers by performing regular patches in order to keep the computers up to date. Think of this as a checkpoint in a video game. You are trying to save data up to a certain point in order to have the latest information in case of crashes or references. The way patch management is deployed is though a centralized patch server. This centralized patch server will let you use a software patch from a central point of control. Having efficient patch management will allow users to save on costs by avoiding poor management. This means that you will have more time and budget to focus on business activities instead of managing these patches and updates.

Patch management is important because...

- Without patch management you will have more risks in your organization because of security breaches. If you do not have your softwares up to date, then it will be easier for hackers to gain data on your infrastructure.

- If you do patch management on your own, you are putting the organization at risk because you are trusting a human over a computer. A slight delay in installing updates could give cybercriminals enough time to steal information.

- Allows users to focus on other important tasks instead of managing patches. Saves time and money.

There are also different patch management softwares such as...

1. Windows Patch Management
2. Mac Patch Management
3. Linux Patch Management
4. Remote Patch Management

With the combination of synchronization, detection, downloading, testing and approving, deployment, and reporting, you will be able to improve your organization in various ways in order to grow your future systems. 