---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5-SP21"
date:   2021-04-2 19:05:17 -0700
categories: DevOps
---

In today's blog, I will introduce the topic of DevOps in system administration and information technology workforce. DevOps is the process of improving an organization's ability to produce applictions and services at a high velocity. This is a necessary and benificial topic in information technology because it helps improve products compared to organizations using traditional software development and infrastructure management processes.

DevOps is managed by quality assurance and security teams in which they become more tightly connected within one another. With these relations, they use practices to automate processes that are performing slowly. The way they achieve this is by using a technology stack and tooling which help them deploy code or provision infrastructue.

DevOps is significant because it is actually the main component of every successful business. Customers are able to communicate with the company through devices that are driven by softwares that are derived on online services. The software also transforms logistics, communications, and operations. In the 20th century, companies must be able to build and deliver software that help with industrial automation.

The benefits of DevOps are as followed:

- Speed: With significant speeds, you can deliver to customers faster, change markets, and grow the bussiness at a stable rate.

- Reliability: Just like speeds, your customers will be able to count on the company because they know you are there to assure and assist them.

- Scaling: With the use of automation and consistency, your systems are at a reduced risk. You will have testing and production environments so there won't be a risk of downfall.

- Security: Since you are working with the security team, they will incorperate controls and configuration management techniques for preserving compliance. 