---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1-SP21"
date:   2021-02-26 19:05:17 -0700
categories: Elastic Load Balancing
---

In today's blog, I will be discussing the idea of Elastic Load Balancing which is a very good method to implement when working with applications. The reason why ELB is useful is because it allows the monitoring of network traffic in order to improve scalability. Without ELB, you will be running into high traffic with your applications which will ultimately cause your performance levels to drop. With the high amounts of data transfer between different applications, this is definitely one of the best ways to monitor your usage with a high amount of workload.

When looking at Elastic Load Balancing, there are four different types which are...

1. Application Load Balancer: This type is best used for HTTP and HTTPS traffic because it routes traffic to target within the AWS VPC. With this type of balancer, you are mostly working with containers.

2. Network Load Balancer: This type is best used for TCP, UDP, and TLS because there is a high amount of performance. It's best perk is that AWS VPC can handle millions of requests per second.

3. Gateway Load Balancer: This type is best used for virtual networking appliances. Specific ones are security and network analytics because your source and destination are transparent.

4. Classic Load Balancer: This is the last type and it is because used for Amazon EC2 intances which is mainly used in this class. This is useful because it operates at both the request level and the connection level.

With the use of ELB's, you will have a fully managed service that will allow you to focus on your applications while the capacity monitoring is automatically integrated for you. Not only is it easy to use and fast, but it provides users with a high level security such as cerficate management, user-authentication, and decryption. 