---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4-SP21"
date:   2021-03-26 19:05:17 -0700
categories: Virtual Machines
---

In today's blog, I will be discussing and introducing the topic of virtual machines. Virtual machines are very useful and common in the world of system administration. To get a little more familiar, a virtual machine acts like a computer, but it is just a file. You are essentially creating a computer within another computer so you can work on specific tasks without using your main computer. The reason why you would want to use a virtual machine in some cases rather than your own computer is because a VM is it's own environment. The software inside a VM can't escape into your main computer. This is why system administrators will most likely do testing or accessing virus-infected data using a VM.

Just like testing, there are more advantages to using Virtual Machines which are:

- Running multiple operating systems on a single physical computer
- Reduce the cost of changing to a new operating system.
- Provide application provisioning options.

There are also some disadvantages to Virtual machines which are:

- Unstable performance due to multiple environments running on one phsyical device
- Less efficient and run slower than a regular computer since they are a like a copy.

The signifcance of Virtual machines is that there are various types of virtual machines such as:

- Windows VM
- Mac VM
- iOS VM
- Java VM
- Python VM
- Linux VM
- Ubuntu VM

Although there are multiple types, you need to take in consideration the pricing with these VMs. Some may have no upfront costs and some may charge you a specific price to use. 

In conclusion, you should always think about Virtual Machines when you want to perform certain tasks. It is important in some cases because you don't want to damage your main computer.