---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9-SP21"
date:   2021-04-30 19:05:17 -0700
categories: Types of servers
---

In today's blog I will talk about the various types of servers that are connected with computer networking. There are either peer to peer servers or client server architectures. Clients are the computers and the server is the network that is connected together. The way these two connect are with the use of ports which control the flow of data and recieve and request data from one another. 

However, there are many types of servers such as...

- Web Server
- Database Server
- eMail Server
- Web Proxy Server
- DNS Server

Web servers have a GET request and a POST request. A GET request is when the client wants to retrieve certain information and doesn't have any information in order to submit the result to the server. However, the POST reuqest is when the client does have information and expects a response back from the server.

Database servers operate with other servers. One of the most popular ways this is done is with SQL, also known as structured query language. Web applications will have their server side components connected to a database server in order to grab data per users request.

eMail Servers usually run on simple mail transfer protocol which is the most dominant. An email server provides email services in which they take from one server and forward to another. This is a way of simplifying the data so the user has an easier time accessing data.

Web Proxy Servers take in user requests, clean them up, and then act on what the user requests. Since web traffic is though one IP address, users can gain access to sites that aren't allowed through this type of clean up. The web traffic is put together so one computer can't be differentiated publicly.

DNS Servers are used to translate domain names to their corresponding IP addresses. Your internet service provider will usually provide the DNS. However, some users who are concerned about the privacy will change the DNS server in order to be unique. These servers operate on authoritative servers.